Nneka Moweta
Girlhood. README.

This colorful web application provides an interactive educational experience about the four phases of the menstrual cycle, certain period products, certain relief methods for period pain, a resources page that redirects the user to different women’s health organizations, as well as a feature that accesses the user’s camera in the form of an inspirational mirror and is captioned with “You Are So Beautiful!”. The mainly purple and pink application also features a slideshow interface with color-coded sections, responsive design, and intuitive navigation controls. The goal of this website is to inform users who might not know much about their menstrual cycle or other aspects pertaining to it.

How to Use It
In order to start using the website, on the homepage of the website where it displays the title, “Girlhood.”, there is a line underneath the period that says “Click on the period!”. Please follow that direction and click on the period as it will direct you to the navigation control page. Once you get to the page, you will see five buttons, 1.) Phases, 2.) Products, 3.) Relief, 4.) Resources, and 5.) Mirror. You can click on any of them in any order to see what each button has in store. If you wish to return to the homepage, you can click on the purple logo with the white flower on it in the top left corner of the website. This is the home button that appears on every one of the webpages.


Phases
If you click on the Phases button, you will be redirected to a page that has an interactive slideshow, each slide displaying information about each of the menstrual cycle phases in order starting from Follicular, Ovulation, Luteal, and then ending with Menstruation. There is a navigation bar underneath the pictures of the emotive uteruses displaying the words “Previous” and “Next”, so that you can go back and forth between the slides by clicking on those buttons. The dots a part of the navigation bar show your progress in the slides. If you want to return to the navigation control page, you can click on the home button at the very top left corner of the webpage as mentioned above.

Products
If you click on the Products button, you will be redirected to a page that lists various menstrual products with brief descriptions next to the left of each of the pictures, ranging from pads, tampons, menstrual cups, menstrual discs, and period underwear. You can scroll down through the website to read all of the information. There is text near the top of the page that provides a description as to why users should purchase natural and organic products. Additionally, there is a quote that rests underneath the title “Menstrual Products” about the percentage of women who miss school due to their lack of access to menstrual products. If you want to return to the navigation control page, click on the home button at the very top left corner of the webpage as mentioned above.

Relief
If you click on the Relief button, you will see a similar page to the Products one. You can scroll through the page to see three various relief methods that can help alleviate menstrual cramps and pain (exercise, acupressure, and heat therapy). If you wish to exit the page and return to the navigation control page, click on the home button at the very top left corner of the webpage as mentioned above.

Resources
If you click on the Resources button, you will see a page with nine different buttons, each with logo covers of different organizations. 1.) BanaPads, 2.) Clue App, 3.) Flo.Health, 4.) Healthy Women, 5.) Saathi Pads, 6.) SafePad, 7.) LGBT Foundation, 8.) The Pad Project, and 9.) Planned Parenthood. If you click on each of the buttons, you will be redirected to each of the buttons’ websites that they are linked to. For example, the Clue App button will redirect you to the Clue App website. If you wish to go back to the navigation page, click on the home button at the very top left corner of the webpage as mentioned above.

Mirror
If you click on the Mirror button, it will redirect you to a page that has a seemingly blank mirror with a pink background. However, if you scroll down just a bit, you will see a button that says “Open Mirror”. Once you click on this, it will change into the words “Mirror Active” and your computer’s camera will display as the mirror. Essentially, the idea behind this is that you are looking at yourself while also looking at the caption below that says “You Are So Beautiful!”. That way, the user has an inspirational message to look at whenever they are feeling down. Being on your period can make you feel really sad and that is why I think that the mirror is essential to reassure users that they are beautiful no matter if they are on their period or not. There is also a privacy note at the very bottom of the “Open Mirror” button to reassure the user that the opening of the camera is not recording the user or invading their privacy. If you wish to go back to the navigation page, click on the home button at the very top left corner of the webpage as mentioned above.
